*See [[Getting Started]] for how to... _get started_!*


h2. About Rudy

Rudy is a command-line tool for developing and deploying with Amazon EC2.

h3. Machines 

It organizes EC2 instances into groups of _environments_ and _roles_. These are called _machine_ _groups_.  You can run multiple machines with the same role. These are called _positions_. Rudy also supports running machine groups across availability _zones_. Rudy assumes some default values to make the initial installation easier. <tt>stage</tt> is the default environment and <tt>app</tt> is the default role (these can be changed). 

When you put all this together, you have a unique name for every machine. The default machine is:

<pre><code>             zone     env  role
              v        v    v   
        m-us-east-1b-stage-app-01
        ^                       ^
     "machine"                position</pre></code>

     
h3. Routines

Rudy breaks down the maintenance of EC2 instances into a set of routines. You can build as many routines as you like. The default ones are: <tt>startup</tt>, <tt>release</tt>, and <tt>shutdown</tt>.

This is how you call a routine:

<pre><code>  $ rudy startup</pre></code>

And this is the output:
<pre><code>m-us-east-1b-stage-app-01                         awsid: i-aabbcc11 
   -> Checking if instance is running........... done
   -> Waiting for SSH daemon........ done
   -> Setting hostame to m-us-east-1b-stage-app-01... done

  ---  ADD USER  ---------------------------------------------------
  
  delano$ useradd -m -d /home/delano -s /bin/bash delano
  
  ---  AUTHORIZE USER  ---------------------------------------------
  
  delano$ authorize_keys_remote
  
  ---  DISKS  ------------------------------------------------------
  Creating disk-us-east-1b-stage-app-01-rudy-disk1 
  Creating volume...  done
  Attaching vol-443322aa to i-aabbcc11...  done
  Creating ext3 filesystem for /dev/sdr... done
  Mounting at /rudy/disk1... done
  Empty after config for delano
  
  ---  INFO  -------------------------------------------------------
  Filesystem on m-us-east-1b-stage-app-01:
    Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
    /dev/sdr              2.0G   68M  1.9G   4% /rudy/disk1
  
The following machines are now available:
m-us-east-1b-stage-app-01  ec2-11-22-33-44.compute-1.amazonaws.com</code></pre>


h2. Recent Changes

* 2009-05-02 [[Getting Started]], [[Project Status]], [[Home]]
* 2009-05-02 Rudy 0.7 is released
* 2009-04-25 [[FAQ]]
* 2009-04-24 [[Getting Started]], [[Common Errors]], [[Project Status]]
* 2009-04-20 Rudy 0.6 is released


h2. More Information

* Submit issues to the <a href="http://github.com/solutious/rudy/issues">Issue Tracker</a>
* Start a discussion on the <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/rudy-deployment">Google Group</a>
* For all other inquiries, email me directly: delano@solutious.com



